(docs): Added for drain node experiment (#134)
litmuschaos/litmus-docs: website/docs/concepts/oauth-dex-concept.md

---
id: oauth-dex-concept
title: Authentication process in ChaosCenter
sidebar_label: Authentication in ChoasCenter
---

---

## Prerequisites

- [OAuth](https://oauth.net/specs/)

ChaosCenter allows OAuth as well as local authentication using Dex and the authentication server.

## Authentication Architecture

<img src={require('../assets/concepts/authentication/architecture.png').default} width="800" /><br/><br/>

Litmus portal uses two components for authentication of users:

- Authentication Server
- Dex OIDC Server (Optional)

> By defauly litmus-portal comes with then authentication server as part of the `litmusportal-server` deployment and it allows local authentication that is based of mongo database. Client services such as `litmus-ctl` and `litmusportal-frontend` make use of this server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default litmus-portal comes with then authentication server as part of the `litmusportal-server` deployment and it allows local authentication that is based of mongo database. Client services such as `litmus-ctl` and `litmusportal-frontend` make use of this server.
```

> By defauly litmus-portal comes with then authentication server as part of the `litmusportal-server` deployment and it allows local authentication that is based of mongo database. Client services such as `litmus-ctl` and `litmusportal-frontend` make use of this server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By defauly litmus-portal comes with then authentication server as part of the `litmusportal-server` deployment and it allows local authentication that is based on mongo database. Client services such as `litmus-ctl` and `litmusportal-frontend` make use of this server.
```

> By defauly litmus-portal comes with then authentication server as part of the `litmusportal-server` deployment and it allows local authentication that is based of mongo database. Client services such as `litmus-ctl` and `litmusportal-frontend` make use of this server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By defauly litmus-portal comes with then authentication server as part of the `litmusportal-server` deployment and it allows local authentication that is based of mongo database. Client services such as `litmusctl` and `litmusportal-frontend` make use of this server.
```

> In order to provide enhanced and seamless login features, we wanted to integrate OAuth and various other authentication mechanism such as OpenID connect. To have flexibility, litmus-portal also makes use of an additional component, the [Dex OIDC server](https://dexidp.io/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to provide enhanced and seamless login features, we wanted to integrate OAuth and other authentication mechanisms such as OpenID connect. To have flexibility, litmus-portal makes use of an additional component, [Dex OIDC server](https://dexidp.io/).
```

> It is an highly extensible cloud native OIDC provider that is able to take care of various authentication mechanisms. In order to keep things uniform, when this additional server is deployed, the authentication-server has some features that allows it to communicate to the dex-server, this enables integration of various OAuth providers, some being GitHub auth and Google auth in this case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dex is a highly extensible cloud-native OIDC provider that is able to take care of various authentication mechanisms. With Dex being deployed, the authentication-server can communicate with the dex-server,  enabling integration of various OAuth providers. GitHub and Google auth has been tested at present. 
```
